The effects of 'sex' on sentinel contribution is generally that males contribute to sentinel efforts more than females. This can be observed as an increase in the frequency and/or duration of bouts. This is seen in many avian species and certain mammals such as meerkats and dwarf mongoose.
Males could be using the sentinel role to both watch out for predators, but also for intruders in their territory. Often times, male sentinel meerkats can be observed chasing away intruders or making [[contact calls]] in Arabian babblers. Sentinels may therefore be using their elevated and prominent position to accomplish other needs.
Similarly, dominant male white-browed sparrow weavers sentineled significantly more than helpers of either sex and dominant females [[Sexually selected sentinels_ Evidence of a role for intrasexual competition in sentinel behavior]]. Exposure to the song of a foreign male led to a further increase in sentinel contribution, suggesting that sentinel behavior could play a role in intra-sexual competition.
In red-winged blackbirds, males were observed spending considerable amounts of time being sentinel while females were incubating eggs. It could be that males can allocate more time and energy to partner or nest defense than females, as the energetic requirements of sperm production are dwarfed by those of egg production in females. 
Likewise, and again in line with the hypothesis that sentinel behavior is not simply an antipredator behavior, sentinels could be using the elevated position to gather information about group-members, consistent with findings that dominant males sentinel the most, even in the presence of helpers [[Role of Helpers in the Sentinel Behaviour of the Florida Scrub Jay (Aphelocoma c. coerulescens)]]. I these dominant males could be gathering information about potential challengers.
